Previously on Grimm...
What I saw...
...felt real.
Nobody sees the
world the same way.
- What is it?
- A Wolfsangel.
Why?
The Secundum
Naturae Ordinem Wesen.
To them, intermarriage is a
crime against man and nature.
What's wrong?
Just a little bit of nausea.
It's not a big deal.
It's just happened
a couple of times.
Are you
possibly pregnant?
"Cuide su rebano,
nunca deje su lado.
"Cuide su sangre,
el Chupacabra tiene hambre."
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Fever's down,
less ache-y.
She should be okay
in a couple of days.
Make sure she stays
in bed and hydrated.
Our flight's in a couple
hours, we gotta get going.
Just a couple
of more patients.
We're going
to miss the plane.
Everything will be fine,
don't worry.
If you need anything,
the nurse will help.
Gracias, doctor.
We can't rid
the entire world
of disease in
one trip, Diego.
It's gonna take
at least two.
It'll be nice to
sleep in my own bed.
Actually just
be nice to sleep.
And to be back home.
And to see
my beautiful wife.
Okay, can you not rub in the wife part?
Quit breaking up
with your girlfriends. Ah!
I won't miss
the mosquitoes.
Yeah, well,
they'll miss me.
PORTLAND
You were gone
too long this time.
I'm not letting
you leave again.
Fine by me.
So, how was it?
Sisyphean.
You were just pushing
rocks up a hill?
Seems like.
Have you had
any sleep?
Yeah.
I don't remember when,
but I did have some.
Listen, the next
time you do this,
you gotta take
better care of yourself.
You look exhausted.
I sort of
feel like it, too.
But you are making me
feel better already.
Are you hungry?
I made lasagna.
Italian, good.
No more
arroz y frijoles.
And after you eat, I'm
putting you right to bed.
As long as
you're coming with me.
The big one or
the medium one?
How much are we
gonna be wearing?
I mean, this is
a honeymoon.
I'm bringing the big one,
just in case we buy stuff.
What are you looking for?
My old camera.
Well, that doesn't
really narrow it down.
Yeah, but this is
my uncle's 1935
Ernst Leitz
Wetzlar Leica DRP
with a Wetzlar Summar
five centimeter lens.
TMI.
Sorry.
But we cannot succumb to
digital on our honeymoon.
Where'd you last see it?
Wherever I put it,
which is why I can't find it.
Hey. Honey, don't
worry, we'll find it.
I know. It's just, I don't know.
You don't know what?
I just, I wish we
could leave on a trip
and not feel like
something's gonna
go horribly wrong
while we're gone.
Well, on the
glass half full side,
we won't be here.
Hey, if you and I
don't make
time to go on
this honeymoon,
then we will always find a
reason not to go on it.
I know, but...
But what?
Other people
don't have reasons
like scalp-coat-wearing
madmen,
or the zombie apocalypse!
Or Hexenbiest hell.
Right.
Or the Umkippen!
See? And we're just getting started.
Look, we have to trust that they
have this under control without us.
I know.
You're right.
Yeah.
You know, I can't remember
the last time we did this.
What, eat take-out
and drink beer?
Don't we do this,
like, four times a week?
No!
Have the house
to ourselves.
on, yeah.
Hey, this is exactly
what we were eating
the first night
Trubel was here.
Guess we're kind
of empty nesters.
I hope she's okay.
She's fine.
Ooh.
I'm gonna miss her.
Me too.
But if she was here, we
wouldn't have enough food.
That is true.
What are we gonna
do now that we have
the whole refrigerator
to ourselves?
And the house.
Let me think.
Hey, come on. Stop it,
it's just a squirrel.
Hey, hey! Panchito!
Panchito!
AUSTRIA
Nicholas
Burkhardt's mother is dead.
Officially, that is.
Just as the accident
was reported
in the New York newspaper,
21 years ago.
Bodies burned
beyond recognition.
Because the heads
were missing,
dental records
could not be obtained.
Well, the woman who
took me and my baby
to Nick's house
was Nick's mother,
and she definitely
had her head.
So she's been excellent
at covering her tracks.
Better
than excellent.
No one has been able to discover
anything about her since her death.
Or if they have, they haven't
lived to tell about it.
Except Adalind,
of course.
Well, I wasn't
trying to kill her.
Perhaps you
should have.
You'd still
have your child.
Would I?
Probably not, but that's
beside the point.
We're working together now.
We trust one another.
Don't we?
We do.
So how do we
find my baby?
Well, the last anyone
saw her was in Portland.
Victims were
found this morning
around 5:00 a.m.
by a neighbor.
Victims? There's
more than one?
Victim one, who
has been identified
as Justin Murray,
was taking his dog,
victim two,
for what appears to be
a late night or
early morning walk
when they were attacked.
No witnesses yet.
But we do have a lot
of neighbors who said
they heard what they described
as growling and screaming.
Ooh.
Seems like their throats were
ripped open and the blood drained,
judging by the fact there's not
a lot of blood on the ground.
Looks like something
bit into his neck.
And by "something"
you mean...
It's not your average gunshot,
stabbing, bludgeoning.
Uh, I'm not sure
I understand what average
is anymore in this city.
Not that I have any opinion that
makes sense 'cause, you know,
I'm ready to go with
vampire or wolf man.
Do I sound a little stressed?
Doesn't matter.
Anyway...
Neighbor found
them this morning.
Recent immigrant from
Ecuador, Manuel Fierros.
Mr. Fierros.
Yes?
This is Detective Burkhardt,
and Detective Griffin.
They want to ask
you a few questions.
You found the body?
I find them
muy temprano.
Is early. I call 911.
I see run, walk him
every night with his dog.
Do you live in
the neighborhood?
I living with my cousin.
Did you see
anything else unusual,
any other people
or cars driving by?
No, I did not see,
but I hear him scream.
I was asleep and I hear him.
I come outside and
find him, them muertos.
All right.
Thank you, Mr. Fierros.
If you can think of
anything else, please...
But I know.
What?
I know what kill him.
You said you didn't
see what happened.
I did not see, I know.
You see this?
Blood of man and animal.
Es el Chupacabra.
Uh, excuse me?
Chupacabra?
The urban legend,
That Chupacabra?
Only Chupacabra
kill like this.
Where were you? I woke
up and you were gone.
I couldn't sleep.
I didn't know
where you went.
I tried calling you on your
cell, but you left it here.
I needed to get some fresh
air, so I went for a walk.
Without shoes?
I didn't go far.
Do you know what
happened back there?
Somebody killed Justin.
Oh, God.
Do they know who?
I don't know.
I don't, I don't think so.
I'm just so glad
you're back here.
Don't ever do
that to me again.
I'm sorry,
Belem, I won't.
Have you had
any sleep?
Yeah, I'm okay,
just jet lagged.
Gotta get ready
for work.
Maybe you should
take a day off.
Would if I could.
Our victim,
Justin Murray,
moved to Portland
from New York seven years ago.
Arrested for vandalism.
Other than that, he's clean.
No gang affiliations,
no known enemies.
So we believe the
witness, Mr. Fierros?
We're dealing
with a Chupacabra?
Do we know what
a Chupacabra is?
No, we don't.
Well, somebody does.
According to this,
the word "Chupacabra"
comes from the
Spanish chupar,
meaning "to suck,"
and cabra, meaning "goat."
Goat sucker.
We've had worse.
Its name comes
from the belief
that this creature
attacks livestock
and drinks its blood.
So we're dealing
with a Wesen.
Yeah, I hope so.
I cannot believe
I just said that.
Well, whatever it is, is one
meal going to be enough?
A Chupacabra
is Spanish.
And I bet you, Juliette
knows something about this.
I'm gonna have her
meet us at the trailer.
Did you have
an ultrasound?
No, but I took a pregnancy
test three times.
I'm not pregnant.
Well, maybe you
should have an MRI then.
I've been under
a lot of stress.
I think I just need
something for the nausea.
What about
the headaches?
That too.
Look, I don't think it's
anything life threatening.
Oh. it's serious, but it's
not life threatening?
I don't even think
it's that serious.
Nick had headaches after what
we went through,
it could just be one
of the side effects.
Let's hope not.
I'm gonna put together
a few things for you.
I'll give you enough to hold
you over while we're gone,
but if it gets worse,
you need to see a doctor.
Yes, Mom.
I still can't believe you guys are
finally going on your honey...
Don't jinx it!
Right. Sorry.
Hey, babe.
No, I'm at the Spice
Shop with Rosalee.
No, there's not a problem,
they're still going.
Don't jinx m
Yeah, I'll meet
you there. Okay, bye.
Okay, I gotta go.
You put that sign up
as soon as I leave,
and have a fantastic time.
Oh, thank you.
I'll see you in a couple of weeks.
Bye.
Very tan.
Bye, sweetie.
Spice and Tea.
How can I help you?
Rosalee Calvert?
Yes?
You made a mistake.
Who is this?
Your marriage is
an abomination.
A cancer on the institution
of rightful Wesen marriage.
Go to hell.
At your back door,
it'll be your blood next.
on, my God!
Are you all right?
No, no.
They're not
going to stop.
Someone doesn't
want us to be together.
They want me to
leave you or...
Or what?
He said it's gonna
be my blood next.
They're going
to hurt us!
I am gonna kill them.
Yeah? Can I show
you something, sir?
Sure.
Cause of death in
each one of these cases
is what I would
call Portland-esque,
and by that I mean,
it's weird.
We have an assortment
of exploding stomachs,
throats ripped open,
bodies cut in half,
limbs chewed off
and so forth.
But they have one
thing in common,
they were all handled
by Burkhardt and Griffin.
In this one,
suspect was stabbed
to death, case closed.
In this one, suspect was
shot to death, case closed.
In this one,
suspect was captured,
and declared mentally unfit
to stand trial, case closed.
And your point is?
I wanna know how they're
solving these cases
when the evidence
doesn't lead to the suspect.
What are they
seeing that I'm not?
That's what makes them good
detectives, they see things we can't.
Excuse
me, I need to take this.
Hello?
Sean Renard.
Yeah.
You recognize my voice?
I do.
We need to meet.
I can%leave
the country right now.
You don't have to.
I came to you.
Tell me where to
meet you tonight.
Southwest Morrison
and Park, at nine.
You Okay?
Just a bit of a fever,
I'll be fine.
Must've got something
while we were in the DR.
Go home. Get some
rest, I can cover.
You got enough to do.
I'm sure it's nothing.
Hey, Gabe.
Did we talk last night?
After we got home?
No. Why?
I don't know.
I just can't seem to
remember what I did last night.
Man, you really need to get some rest.
Did you ask Belem?
No, it's nothing.
If you want,
I can run some tests.
So can I.
I've just gotta get back into
this time zone, that's all.
All right, but I still
think you should go home.
My grandma used to blame
the Chupacabra for everything.
Dead relatives, missing
pets, even lost keys.
Then, according to
your grandmother,
Chupacabra is
a pet-eating,
key-stealing,
goat-sucking killer.
It is especially dangerous
if you are out alone at night,
or you get into a car with
a boy, or come home late.
I learned that the last
two weren't exactly true.
Well,
I might have something.
A Waldreor.
All right, it's Puerto Rico,
1975, it's in Spanish.
"I followed the rumors
"to a small town of
Moca in Puerto Rico
"where the locals had dubbed
it El Vampiro de Moca.
"Initially, I had suspected
it was Wesen.
"I was only half right.
"Whatever it had once been,
it was now horribly deformed,
"and seen by all.
"Whatever the disease was,
"mange, rabies, malaria,
perhaps even leprosy,
"completely
transfigured the Wesen
"into what has been known
since the Middle Ages
"as a Waldreor.
"The Wesen was buried
beneath the disease."
Waldreor are Wesen that
contracted some kind of disease?
Yeah, seems like.
That's it!
That's the Chupacabra.
That is exactly
what it looks like,
according to my grandma.
So the Waldreor is
the original Chupacabra.
Mmm.
Yeah, Monroe.
Well, slow down. What's up?
We're on our way.
What happened?
The Secundum Naturae
Ordinem Wesen are back.
And Monroe
is not happy.
Diego??
Did you fall?
Diego?
I didn't touch it. I didn't
think you'd want me to.
We're gonna need
it as evidence.
When did you find it?
I didn't.
Rosalee did.
She, uh, got a call
here earlier today.
I'm assuming the caller
didn't identify themselves.
No. He just said if she didn't
leave me, it'd be her blood next.
We can run the number,
but my guess is
he made the call
from a burner.
I find who did this,
they're dead.
Just letting you know.
We think it was somebody at your
wedding who told somebody else.
What?
Before she left, Trubel was
able to identify some people
who we think might
be members of this group.
I've been monitoring
two of them.
Give me their names.
Not yet.
We don't know how many
people are involved.
And we can't take a chance on blowing it.
We've got to get 'em all.
They threatened
Rosalee directly!
They could have
killed her!
You just need to make it
through one more day,
then you get to go on your trip.
It's Wu. I'm gonna
put him on speaker.
Wu, what do you got?
There was another attack.
Happened in the parking
garage of St. Jo's.
- Same MO.
- Any witnesses?
Yeah, but she's not
making much sense.
Good news
is the victim survived.
They took him right into the hospital.
He's stable.
What about the attacker?
Got away.
Did you get
a description?
Oh, boy did we
get a description.
Some kind of
wild dog in clothes.
Canvass the area,
we're on our way.
Maybe we should call in a dog
catcher with a really big net.
Look, I have
to get to this case.
But I promise you I will
find whoever did this.
Monroe and Rosalee...
Need to go
to our house.
That's what I've
been telling her.
Call me when
you get there.
No!
Who's screaming?
Hey, man, what's going on?
El Chupacabra!
MAN 21 What?
Hey, call the cops.
Long shaggy hair,
glowing red eyes,
and blood dripping
down its dog-like face.
Seriously, this is
who we're looking for?
Attacker was on foot,
he can't be far.
Ah, maybe he had
a getaway car.
Yeah, maybe.
I'm gonna
find this guy.
Uh, seems like you're taking
this kind of personally.
Drew, when's the last time
that you had a real vacation?
I'm just asking.
What the hell was that?
Hey! What
are you doing?
Call for backup!
Hands on the ground,
don't move!
I said hands on the ground!
What are you doing here?
Were you attacked?
I don't know.
Did you see where it went?
Stay here.
I drove all the way around,
I didn't see anything.
Did you see
where he went?
I was walking to my car and I thought
I saw my friend, Diego Hoyos.
He was on the ground,
I thought he'd fallen.
But when I got to him...
What?
I'm not sure.
Anything you
remember can help us.
It wasn't Diego.
This was something else.
He was wearing
Diego's clothes,
he was going towards Diego's
car, but this was...
I can't explain it.
When was the last time
you saw Doctor Hoyos?
Today. In his office.
How was he?
He said he was fine,
but I think he might be sick.
We just got back
from the Dominican Republic.
We need to find
this doctor.
It wasn't him.
I know it wasn't.
Thank you
for your time.
Tavitian.
You've come
a long way.
There's a rumor
the resistance has a child.
A very important child.
Yes, I heard
something about that.
Did you hear that
we supposedly
took the child right out
of Prince Viktor's hands,
here in Portland?
I gave the child
to Viktor.
I had no choice.
You may have given
the child to Viktor,
but you know
as well as I do,
you had no intention of
letting him leave with her.
Where is she?
She's with the
Grimm that you hired.
So you know about Kelly Burkhardt?
Hmm.
Why didn't you tell us?
Because the resistance
has been betrayed.
Adalind and the baby
barely escaped Europe.
You have a
mole, my friend.
I suggest you
find out who that is.
How do I know
it wasn't you?
Because if it
had been me,
the child would be with the
Royal Family right now.
And so would I.
We're going to
find that child.
And you're
going to help us.
Look familiar?
Yeah.
The guy and his dog were
killed right up the street.
So, Doctor Hoyos is either
the guy we're looking for,
or he was attacked by the
Chupacabra in the parking garage.
We didn't
find his body.
Yet.
But if he is
the Chupacabra,
what kind of condition is he in now?
I've been trying to call
him, but he hasn't answered.
When was the last
time you spoke with him?
This morning,
before he went to work.
Can you please tell
me what this is about?
Your husband's partner,
Doctor Reyes,
he was attacked
earlier this evening.
Oh, my God,
is Gabe okay?
He's recovering
in the hospital.
We believe your husband might
have seen what happened.
He was there?
We think your husband
may have been involved.
No, no.
I don't believe it.
Hey, it's all right.
I'm not gonna hurt
you or your husband.
But I need to know,
is your husband also Wesen?
Coyotl, like me.
You're the Grimm.
I've been told about you.
Diego wouldn't
hurt anybody.
Have you noticed
any change in his behavior?
He just came back
from a long trip.
He was very tired,
he works hard.
Was your husband
home all last night?
I'm not sure.
When I woke up,
he was just coming in.
He went for a walk.
He couldn't sleep.
Do you know one
of your neighbors
was attacked
earlier this morning?
Yes, Justin Murray.
It's awful.
Your husband
could be very sick.
We need to talk to
him as soon as possible.
Call me as soon
as he gets home.
Wu.
Hey, what are
you doing here?
I need you to answer
a few questions for me.
I've been thinking
about it a lot,
and this job requires someone
of stable mind and body.
And to be honest, stable is far
from what I'm feeling right now.
Wu, you're good
at what you do...
No, I'm not.
I don't know
what's real anymore.
what the answer is
but I'm seeing things
that I can't explain.
All I know is I'm
gonna leave the best job
I've ever had,
and you're gonna let me.
Wu, this is
not the time...
No, Hank, it never is!
I think you both
know what's going on.
And for some reason,
you're leaving me in the dark.
I just hope it's a really good reason.
So, I'm done.
That's enough.
I'm telling him.
We both are.
Wu, wait!
WU, stop!
For what?
Tell us what you saw.
Why don't you start by telling
me about Theresa Rubel,
and those books she
had in your house.
Diego?
Diego! Oh, my God.
Help me!
What's wrong?
I don't know what
is happening to me.
Oh, you're sick.
You're very sick.
I might've done
something awful.
No. I'm calling
an ambulance.
Theresa killed
them in self-defense.
They attacked her.
So, why are you
judge and jury on this?
Why wasn't she arrested?
Why wasn't she put in jail?
We did arrest her,
we did put her in jail.
Then who let her out?
I did.
I wanna talk to her.
She's gone.
Wu, get her out of here!
Wu!
What's happening to him?
That's not my husband!
Wait. You saw it?
You saw it, too?
It's not him!
No! No, Wu!
We gotta kill it!
What's happening?
Listen, he's Wesen.
And he's sick.
And what you saw is real. What?
Diego!
He's sick!
He's infected.
And I think we know someone
who can help him.
Wu took off.
I'm going after him.
Hey, Monroe.
You ever seen
a Waldreor before?
No, why?
Does this have to do
with that dog thing Wu saw?
Yeah. And I'm
with it right now.
I'm gonna need your help. Can
I meet you at the Spice Shop?
Leaving now.
Wu!
What's wrong?
Sounds like they
got some bad company.
We gotta meet them
at the Spice Shop.
Okay.
Ooh.
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
Juliette, you need to
take care of yourself.
Rosalee!
It's okay.
We've got this.
You stay here.
If it
really is Waldreor,
then he's suffering
from a rare blood disease.
We have to use this recipe
called Ka-dinga pepo.
Excuse me?
It's Swahili.
It means devil's disease.
It's related
to dengue fever.
Is it contagious?
Only to Wesen,
through fluid exchange.
What?
And they're
bringing it here?
Yeah, we just gotta be careful.
Do you know
how to treat this?
Oh, we have to hurry.
If he's had the disease
for more than 48 hours,
he could permanently
become a Waldreor.
Permanently?
As in forever?
Well, they don't
live that long. Sorry.
Okay, we need dried papaya
leaf, ground tawa-tawa herb
with the vials in the top drawer
right there... I know, I know.
India pennywort.
Got that.
Oh, shoot,
we're almost out.
How bad
is almost out?
I only have
enough for one dose.
Well, one is
all we need.
"Grind the
ingredients together,
"with liquefied
cows' knees."
Cows' knees?
Radix Cyathulae seu
Achyranthis, Chinese herb.
We need to inject
the mixture into his spine.
Hank, could you get a syringe
out of that top drawer?
Got it.
Where are the needles?
Back of the drawer.
We're gonna have
to heat this up.
Where's the burner? Right
here, behind the counter.
Got it.
Oh, no. She's fainted.
No, stay back.
She's convulsing.
Wait! Stop!
Oh, Nick!
What, I thought he
was the Chupacabra.
Don't anybody move.
That doesn't
sound like a strategy.
Syringe!
Put your cuffs on her!
My cuffs are on him!
Hold her.
I'm coming, I'm coming.
Monroe, be careful!
I'm trying!
Roll her over!
We only have one dose,
which one do we give it to?
Rosalee!
I gotta take him!
No, don't shoot!
Belem.
I love you.
Back away.
Kill me.
We can help you.
No.
It's too late.
No!
Diego.
So first thing,
we're gonna to try to get a lead
on who made the call to Rosalee.
We're gonna get this thing
wrapped up before you get back.
I hope to God
it's nobody we know.
Well, it's gonna be somebody
who knows somebody we know.
Whatever happens,
whatever we find out,
we are not calling
you while you're gone.
The officer
will stay outside
until you leave
in the morning.
Any calls that come in on any of
your phones will be recorded.
Oh, thank you both.
Have a good time.
Thanks, man.
Have a Mai Tai for me.
More than one,
my friend.
We are going on
this honeymoon,
and we are going to
have an amazing time.
And we are not going to let
other people screw this up.
Keep an eye out.
NOW, let's find Wu.
So that's it, right?
You called the cab company?
Yep. They'll be here in the morning.
Eight sharp.
Not that there's anything
sharp about eight,
it's actually the roundest
number, except for zero.
Stop looking out the window.
Let's go to bed.
Officer Acker's gonna be
out there all night, you know?
I feel like we
should do something.
Okay,
I'll make him a snack.
Sorry, Sarge.
I got no choice.
Hi, there. Excuse me.
My wife made you
a little something to eat.
What the...